## Big O notation is the simplified analysis of an algorithm's efficiency.
### The rules are:
### 1.<ins>Drop constants</ins>
Constants in an algorithm are dropped because when an algorithm's time complexity is described ,the focus is on how the algorithm scales and not the number of operations carried out.

**Example**

If we have an array **n** and we print it two times,the values we will receive are 2n, but in Big O notation it is simplified to O(n) since the work is directly proportional to the input size, the 2 is a minor detail that can be dropped.
### 2.<ins>Keep the fastest growing term</ins>

The rule means that if an algorithm has different parts that grow at different rates we keep the highest rate and discard the others.
 
**Example**

If we have a function with two parts,one that loops through an array O(n) and another part that compares each of the numbers with themselves O(n<sup>2</sup>).
The total work is O(n+n<sup>2</sup>).
We ignore the smaller term O(n) because with increase in input size the bigger term will dominate.

If n=1000  
    n<sup>2</sup>=1000000

### 3.<ins>WorstCase Scenario Analysis</ins>

Big O notation focuses on the worst case scenario which is the maximum amount of time it takes a code to run.This is because it more reliable and safer to overestimate time or resources needed than underestimate them.

**Example**

If we make a function that loops through an array of numbers looking for the a specific number that we want.The worst case scenario which is our target number being the last is used as the algorithm run time in Big O notation.


### 4.<ins>Different Variables for different Inputs</ins>

When an algorithm has multiple inputs, we use different variables to represent them.

**Example**

If we have two steps in a function that have different types of inputs,say O(a) and O(b).
The total work will be O(a+b) and not O(n) because this will not show accurately how each input type affects the time.


### 5.<ins>Focus on Asymptotic behaviour</ins>

Big O notation focuses on how algorithms perform with input sizing reaching infinty rather than with small inputs.

**Example**


If a teacher had two ways of counting students, one was by hand the other was with a very fast automatic device that needs time to set up.
For small numbers the first method would be faster but for larger numbers the second is more ideal.Both methods are O(n) but the second is faster due to the constant factor.Big O notation ignores the constant and focuses on growth rate as input approaches infinity.



